Free and open source software is highly modular, and MacPorts ports
often require that other ports be installed beforehand; these
prerequisites for a given port are called a port's ``dependencies''.

The keywords used when specifying dependencies in a Portfile are related
to port install phases, and they refer to what are called library,
build, fetch, extract and run dependencies. Though all of them install
dependencies before a given port is installed, specifying dependencies
with the correct keyword is important for proper port upgrade and
uninstall behavior, or when running targets other than install. For
example, you may not uninstall a port that is a library dependency for
another installed port, though you may remove one that is a build
dependency. Likewise, if you run the fetch target for a port, only the
fetch dependencies will be installed first, so they should be all that
is needed for that target.

depends_fetch; depends_fetch-append; depends_fetch-delete::
  The list of dependencies to check before phases `fetch`, `checksum`,
  `extract`, `patch`, `configure`, `build`, `destroot`, `install`, and
  `package`. Fetch dependencies are needed to download the distfiles for
  a port, and are not needed at all once the software is installed.
depends_extract; depends_extract-append; depends_extract-delete::
  The list of dependencies to check before phases `extract`, `patch`,
  `configure`, `build`, `destroot`, `install`, and `package`. Extract
  dependencies are needed to unpack a port's distfiles into the work
  directory, and are not needed at all once the software is installed.
depends_build; depends_build-append; depends_build-delete::
  The list of dependencies to check before phases `configure`, `build`,
  `destroot`, `install`, and `package`. Build dependencies are needed
  when software is being built, but not needed at all once it is
  installed.
depends_lib; depends_lib-append; depends_lib-delete::
  The list of dependencies to check before phases `configure`, `build`,
  `destroot`, `install`, and `package`. Library dependencies are needed
  both at build time (for headers and libraries to link against) and at
  run time.
depends_test; depends_test-append; depends_test-delete::
  The list of dependencies to check before phase `test`. Test
  dependencies are only needed when the port enables testing (i.e.
  `test.run            yes`).
depends_run; depends_run-append; depends_run-delete::
  The list of dependencies to check before phases `destroot`, `install`,
  and `package`. Run dependencies are needed when the software is run,
  but not to compile it.

[[reference.dependencies.types]]
=== Port and File Dependencies

There are two types of dependencies: port dependencies and file
dependencies. Port dependencies can be satisfied by reference to a port
(the MacPorts registry is queried), or by reference to a file (whether
provided by a port or not). The most commonly-used type of dependencies
in Portfiles are port dependencies, because dependencies should be
provided by MacPorts ported software whenever possible, and usually only
one port can provide the needed libraries and files.

But when satisfying a dependency with vendor-supplied software is
preferred for special reasons, or when it is possible for more than one
port to satisfy a dependency, then file dependencies may be used. An
example of the former is with ubiquitous utilities like awk, grep, make
or sed, where the versions in macOS are often sufficient; an example of
the latter is with ``-devel'' portsâ€”these ports provide a different
version of the same files (though only one can be activated at a time).

Port dependencies, the preferred type, are specified as shown in these
examples:

....
depends_lib         port:rrdtool port:apache2

depends_build       port:libtool

depends_run         port:apache2 port:php5
....

File dependencies should only be used if one of the reasons listed above
applies. There are three types: `bin` for programs, `lib` for libraries,
and `path` for any installed file. File dependencies are specified in
the form: <<type>>:<<filespec>>:<<port>>.

For `bin` dependencies, <<filespec>> is the name of a program in a bin
directory like `${prefix}/bin`, /usr/bin, /bin, and the associated sbin
directories.

For `lib` dependencies, <<filespec>> is the name of a library (but
without its extension) in a lib directory like `${prefix}/lib`,
/usr/lib, /lib, some Framework directories, and those found in
environment variables like DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH.

For `path` dependencies, <<filespec>> is the complete absolute path to
the file, or more usually, when the file is inside `${prefix}`, it is
specified relative to `${prefix}`. Since `path` dependencies are the
only ones which would find files only in an absolute path or a path
inside `${prefix}` they are - in cases when a port needs to be more
restrictive - often used instead of `bin` and `lib` dependencies .

Note that the <<port>> specified is only installed if the specified
library, binary, or file is not found. See the examples below:

....
depends_lib         lib:libX11.6:xorg

depends_build       bin:glibtool:libtool

depends_run         path:lib/libltdl.a:libtool
....
